All
right, it's seminar day. Take a look
around. This is base gym and the last
few weekends, but last weekend was
Melbourne. This weekend is here. Next
weekend is going to be in Perth and I
run seminars. Okay, jump out. 10,000
more reps of that. Not right now, but
yes. Good. Shoulders back. Bring your
chest up higher. Okay, already. Feet too
wide. Bring the feet in closer. Bring
the feet in closer. No, no, no, no.
Closer together. Hipwidth apart. They're
wider than hipwidth apart. The problem
with that is it interferes with my
training time. Damn it. That's okay. It
just means I need to get my training
session um earlier than normal. So, it's
8:00 a.m. and my seminar starts at
10:00. So, I need to get everything done
before the class starts and before
everyone starts turning up. We've got
about 40 guests coming today and they're
all going to watch me train and give
them the same stuff that I've been
giving you guys for free. How's that? Of
course, it's going to be a lot more
in-depth and there's a lot of uh
one-on-one time where I assess
everyone's techniques and we go into
whatever detail and answer people's
questions live. But anyway, my session
is a progression from last week, which
was two sets of one deadlifts. Last week
I did 270. Today is 280. And then last
week I did my stiletto squats, 200 kg
for three reps. I'm thinking of either
going 205 for three and going up by 5 kg
or staying the same weight and
increasing reps again like I did on the
last phase which I quite liked. So we'll
see how that goes. I need to get this
done as quickly as possible plus have
breakfast. Breakfast number two. Sorry,
breakfast number three. I've already
eaten twice today. How's that? Wake up.
I have my oatmeal and coffee. go to my
favorite cafe and I have eggs and more
coffee. Yeah. And then I'm gonna have my
next breakfast which is going to be
fruit and eggs and more coffee. Anyway,
so let's do this. I'm warming up now.
Few light leg presses just to get my
knees. These are some light bandages on
my knees because I don't know, for some
reason like the partial bend in a
deadlift hurts me more than squatting.
So So that's something that I hate about
deadlifts is just this part here. Um,
but every anyway, all I need to do is
like tons and tons of reps of a light
leg press and then they're good to go.
So, I'll do one more set on the leg
press and then we'll start warming up
for the deadlift. Two sets of one on
280. That should be a really easy day.
I'm not so stressed out about that.
Yeah, let's do it. Loose belt. Something
I've done in my past was use the same
belt setting as my squats for my
deadlifts, which is a lot tighter. I
don't know if you've ever seen the viral
video of me throwing my belt off when I
missed the rep. And that's when I
learned the tighter belt for the
deadlift for me and a lot of people, not
everyone, but for a lot of people, it
interferes with their body position. So,
it made me weaker using a looser belt, a
tighter belt setting. So, now this is as
tight as I go. And I also use a higher
belt setting as well. So, when I have
the belt here, it doesn't interfere with
my bottom position. So, when it's here
and I bend over, it can dig in and pinch
my fat around my belly and dig into my
ribs. Up here, it's out of the way. And
it's a really strong brace. You should
try it. So, it's over the top of the rib
cage. So, it doesn't dig into any
ribs. See, just there. It's like, oh, my
knees are a little
bit sore just doing that partial bend.
So, I need a few sets to warm it
up. So, if you're wondering if my hips
are higher than usual, yeah, it's cuz
I'm not bending my
We'll do a couple of sets on that. What
What do they do? They leave the barbell
as they reach the ground like they grip
again in between each rep. Yeah. Have
you seen that before? Not really to be
honest with you with everyone does all
sorts of things when it comes to the
deadlift with how they hold on to it.
So, if you'll see me today, uh that's
something that a a lot of people ask
about is I let go of the bar at the top.
And I covered this on my last deadlift
session where people say, "Why are you
dropping it?" People get upset because
of the noise. No one's upset here. This
is a gym and there's no one around. And
the floors are made for it. The bumper
plates made for it. So, you can drop
this safely. But a lot of people also
say, "You're missing out on the
eccentric portion of the deadlift, which
is a very valuable part of muscle
building." I'll tell you now, I'm not
really like, of course, I want to build
muscle, but I build more muscle doing
other exercises like my squats. Really,
um, and accessory exercises like light
RDL's. Yes, this does have muscle
building potential, but it's also of all
of the lifts that I do, the deadlift is
the most fatiguing. It takes the most
time to recover from. The eccentric
portion is fatiguing. So, what I try and
do is make the fatigue as minimal as
possible so it doesn't interfere with
the rest of my training. Um, but when it
comes to people resetting at the bottom,
another question is, do you do touch and
go? So, I'll show you what a touch and
go rep
is. That's a touch and go. Or do you
reset? Right now, a reset, this is where
I a lot of people when I say reset at
the bottom, they they let go and then
they pick it up again. You don't have to
let go. You can keep your hands on it.
So resetting is
here. I still have my hands on
it, but I'm
not using the
momentum for the touch and go. So that's
all if you want to let go in between
because you feel better about it. Fine.
Here's another strategy. A lot of
people, and this might be you at home,
and you can answer the question, is your
second rep better than your first in a
deadlift? It's a very common mistake
that people have with their deadlifts, I
don't want to say it's a mistake, it's
just very common with people's
deadlifts, is their second rep is better
than the first. Why? Because the
deadlifts, well, Chad, you're going to
knock over those dumbbells there, bro.
The deadlift, unlike the squat, starts
with the concentric. So, with a squat
and a bench press, so we start with the
down phase, that's the eccentric that
allows us to feel the position and build
tension and set our set us up for a good
concentric portion. Whereas a deadlift,
we have to create that tension from
nothing. So from here, I've got to
create tension and start exactly at a
concentric. Now, if you don't know how
to create tension from the beginning,
your first rep will probably be
negatively affected and it'll be weaker.
But then all of a sudden, so the first
one, it's like if you don't know the
position and you pick it up and it's
hard, right? Then all of a sudden, we go
down. Okay, good. I understand the line.
And then the second rep is stronger than
the first, right? So that's a very
common thing. So when people approach
competition, the second rep obviously
doesn't matter because it's only the
first rep that counts. So a great
strategy is to master the first rep is
to reset in between each rep. And that's
what a lot of people do. It's also
called a cluster set where you pick it
up and then step away for 10 seconds,
come back in. So if like if you do
cluster set, cluster set of five. One,
walk away, come in 10 seconds later.
two, walk away, come in 10 seconds
later, three. So, that's a cluster set,
and it's a really great way to learn the
skill of the first
repetition. Uh, and in my opinion,
that's actually harder. So, people think
you're resting for 10 seconds, so it
makes it easier. In my experience, as I
said, the first rep is the hardest rep
for most people. So, it's actually
harder, but it gets you really good at
the skill of the first rep, which I'm
not going to do. I'm not going to do
cluster sets today. I'm only going to do
the first rep. All right. So now I'm
warm. Now I'm just going to go one rep
all the way
up. So this is how So this is how I get
good at the skill of the first
repetition. So for me, to be honest with
you, deadlift is my weakest of the three
lifts. Squat, bench, and
dead. I mean, I can lift the most
weight, but comparative to the
competition, you know, short arms, short
arms, great for a bench press. That's
why my bench press is always strong, but
not so great for a deadlift. So short
arms in a bench press, you don't travel
as far. Great. Short arms in a deadlift,
you travel further. So long arms in a
deadlift, like all the best deadlifters
in the world have pretty long arms. And
also short torsos. I've got a pretty
long torso. Anyway, so my deadlift is my
weakest of the three comparatively, but
I'm not bad at
singles. So all I do is tons and tons of
singles. So that's how I'm going to do
this session now. All right.
That was a really nice position. Yeah,
it's so funny because I already did a
set of warm up of 70 and it's like
whatever. But then when I picked it up,
I braced and I got in position. So these
are the things that I did. Stance, hip
width, barbell over my midoot. From
here, I brace from the top. There's two
ways of doing it. One is you grab the
bar and then you brace. Two, I like to
brace from the top. It gets me tighter.
So I
brace. So when I brace, I bring my rib
cage towards my pelvis and I push my my
guts out into that belt, right? So
brace. And then this is a really
important thing. Reach down and back. So
reaching down lengthens your arms and
it's also part of a lat contraction, but
so is that action here. So, so pull the
bar towards your shins. Okay, that's
lats,
right? And when I did that, that bar
felt like there was it was just
weightless. I'll do it
again. We'll go up by a red plate.
now. So, the color the plate
configuration is two reds and then four
blues. That'll equal 280 kg. Hope it
fits. Then I go
160, then 200, then 240, 280. Big jumps.
Yeah. Yeah. They're kind of big jumps
for
me. I do all my warm-ups are done. Do
you know what I mean? Like I did lots of
lots of leg presses and and all that. So
now, yeah, it's keeping the fatigue low.
My squats, I can't do this.
my squats, I need to feel smaller
incremental increases because if I do a
jump like this, I'll go up a set and
then the next weight it's just like, oh,
that's way heavier. So, I like to have
smaller jumps with my squats. But with
my deadlifts, when I'm when I'm warm,
when my when everything is on and I'm
not fatigued, I can afford to take
bigger jumps like this.
I was looking
Let's have a
look. Felt
okay. Yeah, felt
good. When I lock my head in the right
position, sometimes when my head feel
like I try and I don't try and go head
up. I go crown of the head to the
ceiling, right? But I still try and have
my focal point usually about 3 or 4
meters in front of me on the floor some
point. So that's what where I'm kind of
looking. Now sometimes I go here and I'm
looking 3 4 meters on the floor but it's
not right. And that's because my knees
aren't bent enough. Usually you know
your gaze it changes your body position.
So the the body follows the eyes and if
you're looking down too far your hips
are typically well for me they're too
high and a lot of people as well. So,
when I'm queuing someone to drop their
hips lower, those are a few things that
I can say. Well, drop your hips. People
think I am. Bend your knees more. That's
another one. Or if they're looking
straight down, you can change their gaze
so they're looking a little bit further
out in front. So, those are three great
ways of getting someone to whose hips
are too high to drop their hips a little
bit
lower. Remember, it's not just about
dropping your hips as low as possible.
There's a point where you're dropping
them too low. And you'll know that point
because when you drop the hips too low,
you bend your knees too far and you'll
push the shins forward, right? And when
the shins push forward, it pushes the
barbell away from the center of your
base of support. So the barbell needs to
leave the ground when it's at your
midoot. And if you bend your knees too
much, you're pushing it away from that
point. All right? So that's that's the
sweet spot. You want to bend your knees
as much as you can, but not so much that
it pushes the barbell away from the
center of your base of support. Okay,
let's go heavier. Yep. 240 next. So that
was 200. Then we go 240. That's the last
warm up. And then we'll go 280, which
I'll do two sets of
one. Felt okay. So something
that I like the feeling of when my hands
are no problem. I just grip it gently.
You don't want to grip too tight. You
want to grip it tight enough obviously
that it doesn't fall out of your hands.
But when you squeeze it too hard, it
forces all of these muscles to contract.
So this is called the theory of
irradiation, which is where you contract
maximally and the neighboring muscles
also contract. So this can be a problem
with deadlifts because you grip real
tight that forces your your forearm
flexes to engage and you engage so tight
that it forces your biceps to also
engage. And this is where you see people
bending their elbows in a deadlift
because their biceps are engaged and
they shouldn't be. You need to know how
to relax your biceps while you do that.
So the arms are long just like a rope.
So that's how that felt just
then. I can feel the weight, but it's
comfortable. So this is the limit with
bumpers. If I did that, so that's 280.
That's maxing out the bar with
bumpers, you know, and a lot of the
deadlift enthusiasts will say things
like, "Why are you using bumpers? Why
don't you use the the powerlifting
plates?" I just like it. Okay? And I
will I will start using the powerlifting
thin calibrated plates. I will have to.
But to be honest with you, you know, the
the further out on the ends that you
place these plates, the more the barbell
bends and it just makes it like more
bend in the bar when you lift it. Little
bit of a cheat. It's fine yourself to
pick up the weight. Some people get
thrown off by that. Some people don't
like it, but I do. But either way, in
competition, which I'm not in yet. So,
when you're actually prepping for comp,
you need to get used to the feeling of
what it's going to be like with the
calibrated plates because it feels
slightly different. But 280 kg, it's not
competition weights. For me to compete,
I'll need to be doing something about
320 mark. Uh, but I don't want 320. I
think
320. I think 330. I think 330. Um, so
that was at 35. So it's been about 5
minutes.
Um, give myself about another minute.
Felt good. Technically, felt slow, but
felt like I held good position.
Yeah, exactly. Felt slow, but it held
like I felt like I held good position.
Of course, I want it to be a lot faster
because for where I'm at, like I did I
did 300 a couple of weeks ago, like
unpeaked. You know, I would be able to
do 300 today, but you know, there's a
bit of fatigue and when there's fatigue,
I just move slower. But I'm happy with
how it moved. I'm happy that I held the
right position there. does. So, a lot of
the times when it gets heavy and I pull
it pulls me out of position and my hips
shoot up. So, that's something that I
don't want to do. I don't want my hips
to shoot up because when my hips shoot
up too much, that's a loss of leg drive.
So, when hips come up higher, that's
more hamstrings and less quadriceps. If
you're wondering what's stronger, it's
stronger to have your hips closer to the
bar and use more quadriceps. So, when
your hips are higher, they're further
away from the bar. It's less efficient.
It's harder. It's more hamstrings.
Hamstrings are strong, but that's like
an RDL, a Romanian deadlift. That's the
idea of that is to have less bend in the
knees so you can build hamstrings and
it's a weaker position. And RDL is a
great exercise. Building hamstrings is a
great idea. Hamstrings are strong, but
if you want to lift the heaviest weight
possible, you want to have your hips as
low and as close to the bar as possible,
but not so low that it pushes the
barbell forward, right? Technically,
that was a good one. I'm going to do
that one more time. This time, I'm going
to rest 8 minutes. Warming up to that,
my rests were about 3 4 minutes and then
my last one was 6 minutes. So between
240 to 280 was 6 minutes because I'm not
that fatigued and I wanted to to be
still recovered but I wasn't that
fatigued. But now the 280 that is a
little bit fatiguing. I'm going to give
myself 8 minutes.
[Applause]
Next exercise, we're going to do some
high bub stiletto squats for the
quadriceps. So, that's my session. You
know, I would like to be doing a little
bit more volume for my posterior chain.
So, adding at some point in my program
maybe some RDL's or stiff legged
deadlifts or back extensions. Today's
not the day, though. I've got the
seminar in what's the time, Shaza? 9:00.
I've got the seminar in 1 hour. So, I've
got to quickly get this done. I know
what you're thinking. 1 hour. That's
plenty of time. Yeah, I take a long time
to warm up. Anyhow, that's me. So, I'll
warm up to I think 200 I think 20 200
for four rather than 205 for
three increases. Huh? Just uh the
incremental increases. I'll probably do
exactly, you see this? This is how I
like to arrange my session. So, I'll
probably just go plate, plate, plate,
plate. As I said before, I take smaller
jumps with my squats. However, I'm
warm. So, I'll be able to take bigger
jumps here.
For sure. for sure. But you know, I just
picked up 280
kg, you know, so everything is
on. Everything is
on. All right. High bar stiletto squat.
So yesterday I did bench press and my
shoulders are very tight. So lucky I'm
only needing to be in a high bar
position because if I was having to do
low bar, it would be a big struggle.
Okay, 70
kilos. So with a high bar
squat, it's on my upper trapezius,
right? The grip rules as close as
shoulder mobility allows. My shoulders
are very tight because I did upper body
yesterday and you guys know I've got
tight shoulders anyway. But the position
is upper trapezius. So check this out.
So on the on the soft tissue created by
the upper trapezius. Don't have it
resting here up on the bones or your
vertebra. That's not nice. So it needs
to be sitting on muscle.
And the same cues apply with the low bar
squat. I like to retract and depress my
shoulders. So pulling the elbows back
engages those middle back muscles to
stop my upper back from folding. And
then the elbows down component. So it's
either elbows down, shoulder blades
down. increase the distance between your
shoulders and your ears. That's me
saying the same thing in three different
ways. All right, so the idea of that is
lats. And that's a very important cue
for all of your squat patterns and also
your deadlift
patterns. Next set, 160. Two more
sets and then we're done. Three sets
actually higher squat. So I go 160 warm
up, 180 warm up, and then one top set of
200 and then I'm going to chill.
This is this is Critter, his strength
system coach, and uh was the first
Australian to total 10 times body weight
in a powerlifting competition. And he's
done that a number of times in a number
of weight classes. So what are the
weight classes? 67 75 and then Pro Raw
is technically 80. Yeah. So that was
7 was
that 785 78. Yeah. So almost 10 times
body weight in three different weight
classes. Well, sorry. Yeah, but yes, 10
times in two different weight classes.
First Australian to do that. Not bad.
He's going to be doing all my demos
today, which stay tuned for my Instagram
post. All right, let's go. 160. All
right, see you guys.
See the belt position? It's lower now
and tighter. I use a different belt.
Actually, this is my lever belt. For
squats, you want
tighter, bro. You're watching
me. That's fine. It's what happens.
There's a lot of distractions. This is
why I like to train without everyone
here. So, I've got people waiting
outside for the seminar as well. That
was the family that just brought in my
lunch and breakfast. Anyway, we're on.
You ready?
Okay, one more warm-up set. 180 that
like maintain weight progressing reps.
Yeah. Or opposing maintain arm. So this
is what we're just discussing, right? So
last phase I did 180 for three stiletto
squat. That was my first program. That
was my first session. And then I just
went up by reps. 180 for three, 180 for
four, five, and six. The first week that
I did 180, it was pretty hard. And then
the next phase, it's like, you know, I
don't care for 190. It's not a number,
you know. and I just went to 200 for
three. So, it's like, okay, I just
gained 20 kg in that movement. It's
pretty good just by progressing in reps.
So, that's one form of progressively
overloading that is a very good way of
doing it. You should do it sometime. All
right, 181. Let's go.
[Applause]
Okay, last warm up
done. Next set, top set. Let's go.
Okay, good. That was as hard as last
week's
triple except I got an extra rep out.
Nice. Thank you, brother. Um well,
anyway, uh before we continue, thank you
to you. Um thank you to you.
Where's Shalin? She's doing She has to
give me a high five when she gets back.
She's not getting away from
congratulating me for a good session.
You, too. You, too. Thank you, bro. And
thank you guys. Um, next up,
seminar. So, I'm going to go eat
breakfast number three. You know, I'm
not a massive eater. It's not like that.
I just have small meals to keep me
comfortable. My last meal was four eggs
and a piece of toast and tomato. This
next meal, let's have a look. Let's have
a look at what the M has made
me. So, this
is three boiled eggs, kiwi fruit,
orange, pear.
Lovely, lovely start to the day. Um, and
that's me, guys. So, thank you for
joining my quick pre-seminar session.
Got the numbers in. Didn't get a huge
amount of volume, which is fine because
it did two things.
I got the numbers. So, you know,
psychologically I know that next week I
can continue to progress and I did
progress from last week. But also
because it was a low volume session on a
fatiguing week like this is called
external stresses. Me having to do
seminars and and all of those things are
very energy consuming as well. So that's
also difference between professional
athletes of a sport like LeBron James,
Lionel Messi, they're paid to do their
sport, nothing else. Whereas
powerlifting and strength sports, you're
not paid to do it. Uh, strong men are
the highest paid strength athletes. Um,
but even then, only the best of the best
guys get paid. So, powerlifterss, I
don't get paid to do this. So, you have
to work, right? So, external stresses,
and this is something um, a good message
for everyone at home. A lot of people,
I've had people say to me before, how do
you get that strong? And it's like,
okay, where do we start? Right? So, my
first question was, what do you do for a
living? To this one fellow. And he said,
"I'm a p panel beater." And I said,
"When do you train?" And he said, "After
work." I said, "What does work involve?
You on your feet all day?" And he goes,
"Oh, yeah. You know, 8 hours a day on
your feet and bending over and doing all
these things." That's fatiguing. Do you
think Lionel Messi does that before his
football matches? Do you think LeBron
James uh or any of the highest level,
highest paid professional athletes are
doing that before they play? No, they're
absolutely not. So, this is a leisure
that I do actually have is my job. Even
though I do have a seminar today, I
don't do that every day. And my job
involves me training and I've had that
for the last 20 years. So that's a huge
contributor to me being able to reach a
high level in strength that a lot of
people look past. So if you're at home
wondering how do I get strong, it's
like, well, these are the things that
you need to weigh up. And I'm not
telling you to quit your job. But what I
am telling you is don't get disheartened
when you're looking up to people that do
it as a full-time thing. Like me, I'm I
do it as a full-time thing and I've been
doing it for 20 years. Don't think, "Oh,
that's numbers are unrealistic. I won't
be able to get that." Well, it depends.
You might be able to get it. If you if
you dedicate the next decade of your
life and and quit everything else, um
then things will change. But anyway,
that was just a little message. I don't
know if anyone needed to hear that. Uh
if you didn't need to hear that, no
problem. If you did, you're welcome.
Thank you for watching and I'll see you
guys next session.
Get ready. Let's get started.
Everyone got one except for me. Thanks,
guys.
How are you?
Good morning. Yeah.
Yeah. Thanks.
Nice bench.
You see what she said? Can you Can you
hear that? Do you believe what I have to
put up with in this place? She said,
"Nice bench." Thanks, Shin. Very nice.
Oh, very nice bench. That's better.
That's better. Thank you.